[docs] Adds Workflows documentation (#32840)
expo/expo: docs/pages/workflows/variables.mdx

---
title: Variables

> description: Learn how to use variables in Workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to pass data between jobs or steps or set conditionals using variables in Workflows.
```

Let's make it more descriptive.

---

> You can use variables in your workflows to pass data between jobs or steps. Variables are useful for conditionals on subsequent jobs or afftecting the output of a workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variables can be used in workflows to pass data between jobs or steps. They are useful for conditionals on subsequent jobs or affecting the output of a workflow.
```

You can set variables in the workflow file with the `set-output` function:

```yaml .eas/workflows/variables.yaml
jobs:
  fingerprint:
    outputs:
      # @info Sets the `fingerprint_hash_for_workflow` as a variable #
      fingerprint_hash_for_workflow: ${{ steps.fingerprint_step_id.outputs.fingerprint_hash }}
      # @end #
    steps:

>       - name: Set fingerprint hash
> 			id: fingerprint_step_id
> 			run: |
> 				FINGERPRINT_HASH=$(npx expo-updates fingerprint:generate --platform ios | jq '.hash')
>                 # @info Sets the `fingerprint_hash` as a variable #
> 				set-output fingerprint_hash $FINGERPRINT_HASH
>                 # @end #
>                 # @info Exposes the `fingerprint_hash` variable to other steps in this job #
> 			outputs: [fingerprint_hash]
>                 # @end #
>       - name: Do something with the fingerprint hash
> 			run: |
>                 # @info Accesses the `fingerprint_hash` variable #
> 				echo ${ steps.fingerprint_step_id.outputs.fingerprint_hash }
>                 # @end #

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - name: Set fingerprint hash
        id: fingerprint_step_id
        # @info Exposes the `fingerprint_hash` variable to other steps in this job #
        outputs: [fingerprint_hash]
        # @end #
        run: |
          FINGERPRINT_HASH=$(npx expo-updates fingerprint:generate --platform ios | jq '.hash')
          # @info Sets the `fingerprint_hash` as a variable #
          set-output fingerprint_hash $FINGERPRINT_HASH
          # @end #
      - name: Do something with the fingerprint hash
          run: |
            # @info Accesses the `fingerprint_hash` variable #
            echo ${{ steps.fingerprint_step_id.outputs.fingerprint_hash }}
            # @end #
```

>           run: |
>             # @info Accesses the `fingerprint_hash` variable #
>             echo ${{ steps.fingerprint_step_id.outputs.fingerprint_hash }}
>             # @end #

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        run: |
          # @info Accesses the `fingerprint_hash` variable #
          echo ${{ steps.fingerprint_step_id.outputs.fingerprint_hash }}
          # @end #
```

> ```yaml .eas/workflows/variables.yaml
> jobs:
>   fingerprint:
>     outputs:
>       # @info Sets the `fingerprint_hash_for_workflow` as a variable #
>       fingerprint_hash_for_workflow: ${{ steps.fingerprint_step_id.outputs.fingerprint_hash }}
>       # @end #
>     steps:
>       - name: Set fingerprint hash
>         id: fingerprint_step_id
>         # @info Exposes the `fingerprint_hash` variable to other steps in this job #
>         outputs: [fingerprint_hash]
>         # @end #
>         run: |
>           FINGERPRINT_HASH=$(npx expo-updates fingerprint:generate --platform ios | jq '.hash')
>           # @info Sets the `fingerprint_hash` as a variable #
>           set-output fingerprint_hash $FINGERPRINT_HASH
>           # @end #
>       - name: Do something with the fingerprint hash
>         run: |
>           # @info Accesses the `fingerprint_hash` variable #
>           echo ${{ steps.fingerprint_step_id.outputs.fingerprint_hash }}
>           # @end #
>     maybe_build:
>       needs: [fingerprint]
>       # @info Accesses the `fingerprint_hash_for_workflow` variable #
>       if: ${{ needs.fingerprint.outputs.fingerprint_hash_for_workflow != '1234' }}
>       # @end #
>       type: build
>       params:
>         platform: ios
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```yaml .eas/workflows/variables.yaml
jobs:
  fingerprint:
    outputs:
      # @info Sets the <CODE>fingerprint_hash_for_workflow</CODE> as a variable #
      fingerprint_hash_for_workflow: ${{ steps.fingerprint_step_id.outputs.fingerprint_hash }}
      # @end #
    steps:
      - name: Set fingerprint hash
        id: fingerprint_step_id
        # @info Exposes the <CODE>fingerprint_hash</CODE> variable to other steps in this job #
        outputs: [fingerprint_hash]
        # @end #
        # @info Sets the <CODE>fingerprint_hash</CODE> as a variable #
        run: |
          FINGERPRINT_HASH=$(npx expo-updates fingerprint:generate --platform ios | jq '.hash')
          set-output fingerprint_hash $FINGERPRINT_HASH
        # @end #
      - name: Do something with the fingerprint hash
        # @info Accesses the <CODE>fingerprint_hash</CODE variable #
        run: |
          echo ${{ steps.fingerprint_step_id.outputs.fingerprint_hash }}
        # @end #
    maybe_build:
      needs: [fingerprint]
      # @info Accesses the <CODE>fingerprint_hash_for_workflow</CODE> variable #
      if: ${{ needs.fingerprint.outputs.fingerprint_hash_for_workflow != '1234' }}
      # @end #
      type: build
      params:
        platform: ios
```
````

The formatting of code comments for sequential jobs under run was broken:

![CleanShot 2024-11-16 at 22 26 25@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/176fbf28-8091-4df4-b0ca-80024efa89b9)

For now, I could only fix them if the comment surrounds the whole line (including the step keyword)

![CleanShot 2024-11-16 at 22 25 19@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/86171566-dd48-4648-980f-d809979ef28a)

Also, let's use `<CODE>` to highlight code syntax instead of back ticks since back ticks do not work in annotated comments to have the same affect

![CleanShot 2024-11-16 at 22 23 43@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b29e4b4b-bbe3-4226-af10-b9dd6e02cf30)
